Shwa arrived at Lorna Maseko’s cook-along, I mean Homegrown Taste season two media launch in flair and style last week. Although moi arrived on time, they did not start on time – rather irritating. I was forced to stuff my face with snacks while they sorted out their issues, which just messed up my diet. Mzansi and African time are definitely in the same WhatsApp group. But Shwa did enjoy the wine and was impressed by the waiters’ service, absolute gents! They made sure moi’s glass was refilled after the last sip. In search of the who is who among the crowd of only 17 attendees, guest dressed to the theme and rather killed Shwa’s nose for drama. I mean no one showed up to steal the show! Boring … Maseko seemed to have layers of make-up on like her life depended on it. Can you reveal what it is that you are trying to hide underneath all those layers of foundation? Have we ever seen her without a face beat? Shem! Maseko, please tell your make-up artist that sometimes your skin needs to breathe. Anyway, she looked cute in that pink two piece, giving off barbie doll and brat squad vibes. The chicken for the hardbody chicken potjie pot was prepared in advance and all we had to do was put it in the bowl and cover it with the pastry. Talk about making the hardbody bugy! Movie and streaming reviewer from 702, Hugh Fraser, lit the kitchen up with his aura. The old man is so young at heart but had moi rename him “The life of the party”. Darlings, please invite Fraser to your kitchen … you don’t know what you are missing. Viwe Ntlebi from Bona magazine, who is heavily pregnant, came to the kitchen in heels, moi feared for her comfort, but heeey! Not my baby. In between dinner and conversation, the music played at amonitored volume, which left guests feeling nostalgic, perfect choice… Compliments to that play list as no deejay was present, ag! Self-tought chef David Mahlangu , famously known as Malumfoodie on social media platforms, is the plug. If YouTube cooking videos are boring, you tune into Malumfoodie’s content. He’s such a vibe. The highlight of the evening was Thulane Hadebe.Darling, the wines did the things and had “Toolz”, as he is known, entertaining the group after sunset with stories, jokes and a lot of spicy comments. Thank you for showing up the way you did, daaarling…. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.