Swallows FC coach Ernst Middendorp has dumped the Beautiful Birds and terminated his contract which was set to las until 2026. The former Kaizer Chiefs coach is reportedly going back to Germany after he accepted a coaching job offer with third-division side SV Meppen (SVM). His premature exit at the relegation-threatened side comes at the back of an embarrassing 4-1 defeat to Orlando Pirates in the DStv Premiership league clash last Friday. In a statement on Tuesday, the German outfit confirmed the signing of Middendorp. “Ernst Middendorp will be the new head coach of third-division team SV Meppen. He most recently coached Swallows FC in the South African premier league,” said the club in a statement. “He has cancelled his contract there, which ran until the summer of 2026. Ernst Middendorp signed a contract with SVM until the end of the season. “The 64-year-old is from Emsland. He was born in Freren. Ernst Middendorp was one of three coaches at Arminia Bielefeld – first in the years 1988 to 1990, then again from 1994 to 1998. “During his second term in office, he led Arminia from the regional league to the Bundesliga. On the occasion of Arminia Bielefeld’s 100th club anniversary in 2005, Ernst Middendorp was voted Coach of the century” by the fans. “In addition to German clubs such as Rot-Weiss Essen, KFC Uerdingen, FC Augsburg and VfL Bochum, Ernst Middendorp was internationally responsible as head coach for top clubs in China, Cyprus, Thailand and most recently in South Africa.”   Mappen sporting director Heiner Beckmann expressed his delight and said he is adamant that the former Maritzburg United coach will help the side move out of the relegation zone. “We are convinced that Ernst Middendorp can help us directly in the current situation with his enormous experience,” said Beckmann. “I was in regular contact with him, and I know how intensively Ernst Middendorp was involved with German football, the third division and especially with SV Meppen from afar.” Mappen are currently languishing in position 20 with 13 matches to go in the German Bundesliga 3 log standings. For the latest sport news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here