ActionSA’s Kholofelo Morodi is set to receive the full backing of DA-led multi-party coalition during the election of council speaker in the City of Tshwane. While the ANC will endorse Mncedi Ndzwanana, a councillor representing the African Transformation Movement, Morodi has a higher chance of emerging victorious at a council sitting scheduled for Monday afternoon. This because the multi-party coalition holds a majority in the council. The position has been vacant since February 28 when the previous speaker, Murunwa Makwarela, was elected as the new mayor of Tshwane. However, Makwarela’s ascension to the mayoral position was marred by controversy after it emerged that he manipulated his way to the highest office in the municipality. Last week, the DA uncovered that Makwarela was an unrehabilitated insolvent and called for action from city manager Johann Mettler. Mettler asked the Independent Electoral Commission to cancel Makwarela’s membership as a PR councillor, which resulted in his disqualification from the position. On Friday, the purported notice of rehabilitation submitted by Makwarela, claiming to have been issued by the high court in Pretoria, was challenged by chief registrar Tumelo Ledwaba. Ledwaba clarified that the court did not release the letter and had referred the matter to the director for priority crimes investigations for further investigation. “I, Tumelo Refilwe Ledwaba, the chief registrar of the High Court of South Africa, Gauteng Division Pretoria, hereby confirm that the document purporting to be an order issued by this court was never issued in our court,” said Ledwaba. “I also confirm that no rehabilitation order has ever been issued regarding the parties named in the said document. “I am referring this matter to the office of the director for priority crimes investigations for their [attention] and the institution of criminal proceedings.” Makwarela appeared to have worsened his situation after the multi-party coalition opened a case of fraud against him at the Brooklyn police station on Friday. The move led to him stepping down from his position, leaving the municipality without a mayor and a speaker. The election of speaker is crucial, as he or she will be the one to decide on a date for the election of a new mayor. Also read: Weekend special Tshwane Mayor resigns, ending week of drama To read more political news and views, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here