Eskom has appointed Calib Cassim as interim group chief executive. Before his latest role, the power utility appointed him its chief financial officer (CFO) in November 2018, after serving as acting CFO from July 2017. Cassim is a chartered accountant with a master’s degree in business leadership. “With over 20 years of service at Eskom, his qualifications and extensive experience have provided Cassim with a deep understanding of the Eskom business and the electricity industry,” Eskom said. Life Healthcare makes board appointments Life Healthcare has appointed Paul Moeketsi as a non-executive board director from February 23. Moeketsi is a chartered accountant with over 15 years of private equity experience. He is the managing partner of Sanlam Private Equity, a fund that manages over R4-billion. His earlier experience includes being a partner at Medu Capital and an investment director at Value Capital Partners. Life Healthcare also announced that from February 23, it appointed advocate Mahlape Sello as its lead independent director. Sello is a practising advocate and a Johannesburg Society of Advocates member. PSG Konsult appoints new board directors From March 1, PSG Konsult appointed Bridgitte Mathews and Modi Hlobo as new non-executive directors. Mathews is a chartered accountant with a postgraduate certificate in advanced taxation from the University of South Africa. She served on various boards, including PSG Group and Redefine Properties. In addition, she serves on the Metair Investments and WAT Trust boards. Modi is a chartered accountant with private equity and investment banking experience. In addition, she is a University of Johannesburg senior lecturer in financial management. Her previous jobs include positions at the Development Bank of South Africa, the National Empowerment Fund and Absa. Modi also served on the PSG Group board. RMB appoints a chief people officer RMB has appointed Sungeetha Sewpersad as its chief people officer from March 1. She joined RMB from Old Mutual Insure and has 20 years of experience in human resources across industries including retail, legal, insurance, banking and technology, RMB said in a statement. Thesele Group appoints CFO The Thesele Group in January appointed Silindokuhle Chamane as its new chief financial officer. Before joining the Thesele group, Chamane worked for the Kagiso Trust and Barloworld Logistics, according to her LinkedIn profile. She has a bachelor’s degree in accounting, management and finance and a postgraduate diploma in accounting from the University of KwaZulu-Natal. In addition, Chamane is a chartered accountant registered with the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants. Aluwani Capital Partners appoints Mashida legal counsel Aluwani Capital Partners appointed Yonela Mashida as its new legal counsel in January, according to Mashiba’s LinkedIn profile. Before joining Aluwani, he worked for the National Empowerment Fund, the law firm Adams & Adams, the Kagiso Trust and Barloworld Logistics. Mashida has a bachelor of law degree from the University of Pretoria and a qualification in finance for non-financial managers from the Gordon Institute of Business Science.  Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here