The Wits Student Forum has written to vice-chancellor Zeblon Vilakazi and senior executive team (SET) following the suspension of Aphiwe Mnyamana, president of the SRC. In the letter, the forum says it strongly condemns the suspension of Mnyamana and other members of the SRC. “These suspensions warrant intimidation and constitute scare tactics by the SET towards student leaders of Wits University,” reads the letter in part. “It is our view that the SET is trying to silence, threaten and intimidate student leaders for exercising their democratic right to represent and protect students as guided by the university stature.” The forum further notes in the letter that student leaders are entrusted with promoting, protecting and advocating for students’ rights. It is the view of the forum that Vilakazi and the SET have broken their oaths of office in administrating good governance structures, “as they have resorted to fear-mongering tactics on student leaders through threats and handing out suspension letters”. It vowed to intensify protests. Reacting to his suspension, Mnyamana said he is waiting for instruction from his legal adviser, advocate Dali Mpofu, who is currently representing suspended public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane in Section 194 inquiry in Cape Town. “We will respond duly. However, the peaceful protest will continue with or without me,” Mnyamana said. Shirona Patel, spokesperson for Wits University, said Mnyamana failed to appear at a hearing on Monday. This despite having been provided with ample opportunity to make representations at the hearing, said Patel. “The allegations against him are of a serious nature and relate to conduct that infringed on the rights of others, resulted in damage to property, and intimidation of members of the university community, among other things,” explained Patel. By late Tuesday afternoon, the students had intensified their protest at the university’s main campus in Braamfontein. For more education news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here