Students at the University of Witwatersrand have rejected management’s concessions and vowed to continue with their weeklong protest. This after negotiations with the university’s management deadlocked on Monday after the students said management has failed to meet their demands. The failed meeting was attended by members of the Student Representative Council (SRC) and a senior executive team from the institution. On Friday, SRC president Aphiwe Mnyamane informed hundreds of protesting students that management had requested a meeting with the SRC and political party leaders. “We will only proceed with the meeting if the vice-chancellor [professor Zeblon Vilakazi] is present,” Mnyamane said at the time. “If the VC [vice-chancellor] is not there, we will not proceed with the meeting.” However, Wits SRC secretary-general Tshiamo Chuma told Sunday World late on Friday that the meeting had been postponed to Saturday morning. By late Friday, five students had already been suspended by the university, including some SRC leaders. SRC member Kabo Mosiane said the university had communicated that more suspensions were imminent. “They want to intimidate us by targeting prominent students who are participating in the protests,” Mosiane said at the time. “Students are demanding that those who owe R150 000 or less be allowed to register. They also want NSFAS [National Student Financial Aid Scheme] to cover the full cost of accommodation instead of the R45 000 [it currently pays out]. “Students are also demanding that the university allow students who are waiting for bursaries to confirm funding to defer the deposit payment to a later date. “They also want the hardship fund to make more beds available to qualifying students.” On Sunday, about 200 students led by the SRC marched to the vice-chancellor’s house in Parktown, Johannesburg threatening to burn it down. Shirona Patel, spokesperson for the university, said on Monday Wits condemns all forms of violence and implored the students, student leaders, and all other parties to exercise restraint. “We are managing the situation as best as we can,” Patel said. “However, while we continue to find solutions to these systemic challenges, this behaviour is unacceptable as a means to resolve conflict. “We will continue to engage but also preserve the integrity of the academic project, the safety of our staff and students and the university’s infrastructure. “It is important and necessary for the academic programme to continue.” For more education news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here