Shwa was blown away by the likes of veteran Don Laka when she attended a wine and dine on Friday in the city of Mogale – this event was the first of 14 events that will take place in the city. It is said to be an opportunity for SMMEs to engage with the government, and a stage where artists will entertain guests. But getting there, guys, was a pain. Your girl hit a pothole five minutes away from the venue – I know now how many of Mzansi’s people who experience these mean holes daily feel. Being late, I was comforted by the fact that African time is always applied in Mzansi, and the do started an hour later than scheduled. Moi missed the speeches, just in time for dinner. Shwa was impressed to see a young white mayor, Tyrone Michael Gray, in a suit, so interactive and hands-on in the city of Mogale. He even apologised for the pothole on Hendrik Potgieter road and promised to fix it, what a gent! Our country can do with more leaders like you. The chefs outdid themselves with a three-course meal. Guests were dressed to the nines, but some overdid it with disco ball looking like dresses. An open bar left guests very happy and later when Laka hit the stage the alcohol activated some dance moves. Laka was in his element, I mean 50 years in the industry figuratively speaking, Moi takes her hat off. The keyboardist was allocated a 45-minute set and the old man went on longer than that. MC Thabiso Kotane was thrown off foot with time and said to Moi: “I am not sure how long his set will last.” Moi was highly impressed by Laka’s performance. Politician Solly Msimanga showed off his dance moves and told moi his presence at the SMMEs wine and dine was not a political stunt as he believes that the country needs to progress economically… well, that was before he was lit. Chief director for cultural development at the department of arts and culture Charles Mabaso shared he was very happy to jump onto this initiative, especially after what Covid-19 did to the arts sector. He was accompanied by his wife. Shwa observed how beautifully the pair complemented each other. Nomvula Mokonyane was the life of the party making sure that everyone was entertained. Shwa renamed her “Mrs people’s person”. Listen, former president Kgalema Motlhanthe was untouchable as his security was beefed up… pity, Shwa wanted to pick his brain on the failure that SA has become. But this Queen still loves her country, despite the potholes and blackouts, and I must say, partying with leaders was different, but sweet. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here