Multi-award-winning rapper Constantinos Tsobanoglou better known as Costa Titch has died. The 28-year-old Big Flexa rapper from Nelspruit, Mpumalanga collapsed while thrilling fans at the Ultra Music Festival held in Johannesburg on Saturday. The rapper had a stumble and fell during the performance. Despite the mishap, he resumed singing after being assisted by his bodyguard. He, however, slumped a second time and was carried off stage. A reliable source within the music industry confirmed the young rapper’s death to Sunday World on Saturday, following social media speculations created by his industry mate DJ Junior De Rocka, Mr Jazziq, and politician Julius Malema. Entertainment commentator Phil Mphela also reported that the rapper had died. On Sunday, the Tsobanoglou family issued a statement confirming the information. “Death has tragically knocked at our door. Robbing us of our beloved son, brother, and grandson, Constantinos Tsobanoglou (28), who South Africa had come to love and idolize under his stage name ‘Costa Titch’. It is with deep pain that we find ourselves having to acknowledge his passing at this time. “We are thankful for the emergency responders and all those present in his last hours on this earth. As a family we are faced with a difficult time as we try to make sense of what has befallen us and ask that we be afforded the time and space to gather ourselves,” reads the statement. “The Tsobanoglou family thanks you for the love and support you have given to our son and may you continue to uplift him even in spirit. Please keep us in your prayers and uplifted in the Lord.” Once again, the adage that unfortunate events come in threes has proven true in South Africa. Titch’s demise comes after the recent deaths of Chef Lentswe Bhengu, who passed away after a brief illness, and hip hop artist AKA, who was fatally shot alongside his close friend and chef, Tebello ‘Tibz’ Motsoane, last month. Titch worked with AKA on You’re Welcome’ in 2021. He was popular for his contribution to the industry with hits such as Nkalakatha and Activate. He recently signed with music icon Akon’s record label, Konvict Kulture. This story has been updated Watch: Rapper Costa Titch collapsed during a performance on Saturday     Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here