Well, well, well, looks like Lindiwe Sisulu’s political career has gone down the drain faster than a blocked toilet. I mean, when you’re openly dissing the guy who signs your pay check, what do you expect? Maybe she can use her new-found free time to brush up on her fashion sense. Her political future just went on a low budget vacation, and I don’t think she’ll be booking any flights back anytime soon. Aah! Shwa won’t miss this wannabe Queen Elizabeth who thinks the ground she walks on can’t be shaken. I mean she failed to give Covid-19 rent money to struggling tenants, she was part and parcel of wanting to bring that useless soccer team Tottenham Hotspur to SA, which would have cost a billion rand. She defied Ramaphosa openly; she was just too much after spending an eternity in politics. Good riddance. Shwa is only really impressed with the appointment of Thembi Nkadimeng as the new Cogta minister. She’s young, vibrant, and most importantly – she is capable. Most of these cadres need to rest man…but no! They are tjatjarag. I mean what is Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma still doing in the national executive, waiting for her knees to fail her? Shwa just can’t forgive her for Covid-19 lockdown failures. Imagine! The nerve to take away our drinks and smokes and even deny us Woolies chicken. One can just wonder what ridiculous rules she’ll now create for youth, women and people living with disabilities. Shame! Patricia de Lille too, is rather cracking old now, but at least we have a new travel agent in town. Mama, just don’t make a mistake of wearing that Cape Coon Klopse outfit you once tried… Never again, ok? We can’t have the world see that SA is one big circus. On a lighter note, I’m sure she’ll do a great job. I mean, she’s moved from public works and infrastructure to tourism, so she’s clearly got a lot of experience in building things that people want to visit. With her experience, she’s sure to make our trips even more exciting by building a few potholes along the way. Who needs smooth roads anyway? The bumpy ride will just add to the adventure! Whatever happened to her Good party? Seems Gayton McKenzie stole her shine with his PA party. Let’s not forget about Nathi Mthethwa, the flagpole minister. He was about as useful as a chocolate teapot. His time in the arts and culture ministry was like watching paint dry. But hey, at least he managed to scrape together some coins for Banyana Banyana, right? It’s just a shame that Mthethwa and aunt Sisulu’s ministry was as lively as a retirement home’s bingo night. If anyone can handle Mthethwa, it’s our Queen Bonang. Pity she had to drag him that far before he got the hint. Oops! he didn’t, he had his mouth stuffed with a stinking boot. And whatever will happen to his spokesperson, the one who thinks she’s fabulous, Masechaba Khumalo? But fear not, my fellow South Africans, Kgosientsho Ramokgopa’s just arrived. Some say he too had his hand in the cookie jar. Who knows? Judging by his electric dance moves, he will surely bring the power… we hope. We are tired of living, sleeping, eating, working, and doing everything else in the dark. Enough! As for the Minister of Hats – Bheki Cele – will you ever find AKA’s or anyone else’s killers and stop GBV? Will you ever stop posing for pics and looking for attention?