It was a delightful weekend of sports for South Africans across the world, which saw Bafana Bafana overseas-based players get into the score sheets, the Proteas clinch the Betway Test series, and Mamelodi Sundowns claim the bragging rights. The Nedbank Cup round of last 16 also provided plenty of entertainment that saw the Soweto giants book their places in the quarter-finals of the Ke Yona cup. Here are some of the highlights of the best moments over the weekend: Foster opens his scoring account for Burnley South African-born striker Lyle Foster scored his first goal for Burnley during their 3-0 victory over Wigan Athletic in the English Championship league encounter. Bongokuhle Hlongwane, Kobamelo Kodisang and Percy Tau also found the the back of the net. Bafana coach Hugo Broos will be delighted with his forwards getting on the score sheets, but will be left with a headache ahead of his final 23-men squad selection this week, as they prepare for crucial back-to-back 2023 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers against Liberia later in March.  Bavuma silences critics with impressive century South Africa showed class when they beat West Indies by 284 runs on day four to win the Betway Test series 2-0. Captain fantastic Temba Bavuma stamped his authority as the new Proteas Test cricket skipper and silenced his critics with an impressive century. It took Bavuma seven years to record his second ever Test century. He was eventually bowled out for 172 runs.  Masandawana dismantle Al Ahly 5-2 Mamelodi Sundowns continued their dominance against Egyptian giants Al Ahly when they walloped them 5-2 in the CAF Champions League Group B clash. Masandawana have now booked themselves a spot in the Champions League quarter-finals with two more matches to go. Tau’s return to home soil did not go as he had anticipated, with Ahly in danger of exiting the continental competition in group stages.  Chiefs and Pirates survive Nedbank Cup scare Soweto giants Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates continue their journey in the Nedbank Cup after edging past Motsepe Foundation Championship sides to confirm their quarter-final spots. Pirates needed extra-time to win against Venda Football Academy while Amakhosi had to dig deep for their 2-1 victory against Casric Stars. The quarter-finals draw takes place on Monday evening at SuperSport’s studios in Randburg, north of Johannesburg.  For the latest sport news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.