Yours in gossip attended The Nickelodeon Kids’ Choice Awards 2023 watch party on Tuesday in Rosebank at the Ster-Kinekor cinema. For a change I didn’t mind the minions referring to me as Aunty Shwa. The little celebs and influencers rocked the orange carpet in style with their parents. Shwa was greeted by the carpet hostess and new mom Nomalanga Shozi, who seemed excited to see the little ones. And yet Shwa hoped to see your little bundle of joy, but alas. The theme of the day was fun with a touch of orange in a world full of imagination and fun galore. Kudos to Lerai Rakoditsoe, who was the official African Host for the Kids Choice Awards. Baby girl, do you even know you made history? Holding it down, jet-lagged and all as she returned fresh from Los Angeles. We spotted the famous Mo and Mome with their kids, who wore matching orange and white stripped golf T-shirts… is dressing your kids the same still a thing? It was refreshing to see baby Teamo and Khumo, whom we last saw on the Mahlangu reality show. Must say it’s dry without seeing you on the small screen, hope you make a comeback sooner than soon. Riky Rick’s baby mama, Bianca Naidoo, also came out to play with her two kids, Maik and Jordan. Shame man, it was heart-warming to see them having fun with other kids. Katlego Danke was also present and you know moi was trying to spot that belly everyone has been going on and on about. You know Shwa only spills the tea based on facts and I’m sad to tell your haters that there was no bun in sight. In fact, that six pack is so tight, you could bounce a two cent coin off it. Pabi Moloi – sies man, bending over showing off your knickers to them small children’s eyes. Do consider having some form of decency next time. The theme literally said a touch of orange but Enhle Mbali Mlotshwa and her kids were a trio in their Lebrone James NBA kits. Go figure. Buntu Petse, moi is not quite sure why you were at a kids’ event, but anyways, we move. You know why you were there in heels and all. Mpho Popps and Da Les showed off their daddy side and managed to keep the parents and the kids entertained with their jokes. Who knew ya’ll could be such cool dads? Sophie Ndaba-Lichaba was also present enjoying some crusty crab burgers. But nana, where were your babies? Tshepi Vundla and JR Bogopa looked so cute together as they came out to support their little Siba Bogopa, who was one of those who were nominated. Thankfully he left his superhero suit at home this time. When Spongebob came in to see the little guests, Lethukuthula Bhengu – who scooped the award for African Kidfluencer – was terrified of him. Honey child, the yellow sponge is no tokoloshe… relax! Shwa also spotted Kayise Ngqula, Lindo and Valdo, DJ Arch, Alakhe, Lootlove and her cute twins. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here.