At the back of an impressive start to their two-match test series against West Indies, it goes without saying that the Proteas still have their eyes on securing a qualification for the ICC Cricket World Cup later this year. The Proteas emerged victorious when they bowled the West Indies out for 159 runs in the second innings, to win the first test by 87 runs at SuperSport Park Centurion on Thursday afternoon. It all began with a spectacular century by star batsman Aiden Markram in the first innings, when he recorded 116 runs from 47 balls to put the home side in the driving seat. His solid performance was followed by the heroics of fast bowlers Kagiso Rabada and Anrich Nortje, who were ruthless with the ball to inspire the Proteas to winning the five-day test within three days. Nortje registered his fourth Test five-for while Rabada picked up six wickets in the second innings. Rabada is now among the elite bowlers as he reached the 100 wickets milestone in the ICC World Test Championship, becoming just the fifth bowler to reach the landmark in the history of the tournament. South Africa have mysteriously been struggling to deliver in major tournaments, having recently crashed out of the ICC T20 World Cup in Australia in August 2022, after succumbing to a shock defeat to Netherlands. The Proteas saw their automatic qualifying take a setback after they were penalised one point for maintaining a slow over-rate against England in the third ODI in Kimberley early last month. South Africa are currently occupying position nine in the Cricket World Cup Super League standings with 78 points. With the current cycle of the 2023 Cricket World Cup Super League almost over and one more qualifying spot vacant, South Africa have it all to fight for with West Indies (88 points), who are presently occupying the number eight position, Sri Lanka (77 points), Ireland (68 points). The South Africans have five matches remaining, with two of those games being against the Netherlands on March 31 and April 2. Newly appointed Test coach Shukri Conrad alongside captain Temba Bavuma have a tough task at hand to lead South Africa to the ICC World Cup in India later this year. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here