Shwa doesn’t know what’s up with these new “pairing food and culture” vibe events. But as a lover of nice things, off I went to the Fattis and Monis campaign. With the constant loadshedding, Shwa will go anywhere for a free meal. But the do was fancy, shem. The setting felt like being transported off to south Italy to enjoy the “AmaItaliano”. When it comes to hosting, Alphi Sipho does not disappoint; he is such a vibrant ball of fire. Maybe Kelz Coconut, who was hosting alongside him, can learn a thing or two. Still on Kelz, we understand you were the host, but the theme said 
Italian, darling, you didn’t have to wear that shiny dinner dress. Thembi Seete, you looked beautiful as always, but she too could have done better. Jump suit didn’t suit the theme of the night. Shwa was left pondering whether this event was being hosted by Gomora’s producers? The entire Gomora cast was there. From Moshe Ndiki, who was wearing a vest showing us his unshaven armpits, to SeeKay, who really tried to follow them. The way Lerato and SeeKay looked cosy, Moi is starting to think they took the dating off screen. Still on Gomora cast members, Zinzi Nsele, you tried, I will give you an ‘E’ for effort. Siyasanga Papu, it was good seeing you with your better half. Saw you introducing LaConco to him and she was the LaC we all know. LaC, your polka-dotted dress was beautiful, but it was rather giving kofifi vibes and not Italian. Moi must say, your new butt really knows how to get people’s attention. These The Wife “brothers” really think every event is some Zulu traditional thing. Thulane Shange, really? There was no need for that “mqhele” on your head. And the vest? Please respect people’s events. Sipho, dramatic as usual, but your drama is enjoyable. Kwenzo doesn’t seem to be in the public more often lately, are you scared that Moi will have some nasty things to say about you? Maps, did you really want to come to the event? You looked so out of place and bored. Maybe next time you should take your partner with, well, if you have any. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here