Bapedi Queen Manyaku “Hlapogadi A Phaahla” Thulare has blasted government leaders for neglecting the poor. The queen was speaking during a birthday celebration hosted at her house by EFF leader Julius Malema at Mohlaletse in Sekhukhune, Limpopo on Friday. During the celebration, Malema unveiled a double cab bakkie that the EFF bought for the queen. He said they also provided a borehole for Queen Thulare to restore her dignity. The gift, which comes a few years after Malema bought a luxury car for Abathembu King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo, appears to be part of the EFF strategy to woo traditional leaders. Amidst the celebrations, Malema assured traditional leaders that they were not obliged to vote for his party, but warned they shouldn’t elect leaders who constantly fail them. “We want to work with traditional leaders so that no one can take advantage of them. Working with traditional leaders does not mean you must vote for the EFF. We don’t work like that.” Malema said helping people should never be done in exchange for votes. “We help people because we feel we must help people. When people see our work, they will decide on their own that this is a party worth voting for,” he said. He added that providing water was something the government could easily do. The political leader encouraged people to know they deserve better. “We as black people must start saying we deserve more. There is no mine that doesn’t use water. That means they can provide water to accommodate every household. The government itself has enough resources to give you water, but they steal money meant to provide you with water. The queen mother has water today because she gave birth to caring children.” In her response, Thulare expressed gratitude to Malema and the EFF. She said Malema was her “last born” child and should be respected as such. “Where have you seen what you are witnessing today? I was not done birthing children. He is the last one and a comforter,” the queen said. “Our leaders have been saying ‘Sekhukhune, Sekhukhune,’ and they run to the toilet. Now they are going on pension. We could have been far if we had someone like the president (Malema). “Thank you for the water. Water is life. I have been buying water for R2 000 per fortnight. I am not that rich. I have been asking for water since 2007. “I have been carrying a bucket since 2007. I have been feeding my livestock with water from a bucket… (Our leaders) lack mercy. It’s as if they are born of the same mother. It doesn’t matter which problem you narrate to them. They don’t care,” said the Queen. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here