Minister of Police Bheki Cele stuck to his promise and returned to gang-infested Westbury for a ministerial crime-prevention imbizo on Tuesday. Last week, Cele visited the area and put in place a temporary solution to combat gang violence which had gone out of control following the murder of Keenan Ebrahim, the leader of Fast Guns over a week ago. Ebrahim was buried at the weekend under heavy police presence, a week after two people were shot dead and 11 others injured. During the imbizo at the Westbury Community Centre Tuesday, Cele was accompanied by Gauteng premier Panyaza Lesufi, MEC for community safety Faith Mazibuko, Johannesburg mayor Thapelo Amad and acting national commissioner of police Lieutenant-General Tebello Mosiki. Among the community members who came out in big numbers to listen to Cele and his entourage were Brandon Brown, who said: “This is not a drug-related issue, it has to do with unforgiveness. Hulle wil bloed gaan haal [they are out for blood].” His sentiments were shared by Claudine Louw: “As I stand here my head is marked, there are people in this room that saw me come here. My 10-year-old is bullied because he isn’t a [member of] Fast Guns or a Varados.” Also among a crowd of angry yet scared residents was Anthony du Plessis, who complained about the sidelining of coloured communities. “Integrate our children in the police force, our coloured children are not in the force. Give our children an opportunity to be in the mainstream,” said Du Plessis. “You cannot make decisions for a community that you are not part of. Minister, we don’t want the police to walk around, we need undercover police officers.” Some pupils from Westbury High school, who refused to be identified, pleaded with Cele to deploy police officers in school yards. “We do not have the powers to search, what is the plan for learners. Is our safety as learners secured?” asked one of the pupils who attended the imbizo. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.