South Africa woke up to the sad news of the death of MEC for Education Pule Herbet Isak Tate Makgoe died in a car accident. Makgoe was killed along with his protector on the N1 outside the farming town of Winburg in Free State. According to the Free State Premier’s office, emergency services responded to the scene of the accident at about 1.30am and found that a light motor vehicle with three occupants had collided with two cows. The occupants, who were trapped inside the vehicle have since been identified as Makgoe, his bodyguard and driver. “They used the jaws of life to free the occupants and unfortunately, Makgoe and his protector were declared dead on the scene,” said Sello Dithebe, the spokesperson of Free State Premier Mxolisi Dukwana, in a statement. “The male driver of the vehicle suffered moderate injuries and was transported to Winburg Hospital, for stabilisation and for later transportation to Bloemfontein,” he said. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga said she is shocked and saddened at the news of the sudden death of Makgoe. Motshekga said she heard of the devastating news at 4 am today from Zukwana. “I have no words to express my deepest shock at the news of the untimely passing of Comrade Tate. When I was appointed Minister of Basic Education he was also appointed MEC of Education in the Free State and has been in the position ever since,” said Motshekga in a statement. “The success of the province in education can be attributed mainly to his leadership, dedication, understanding of the sector and the innovation which has yielded great results. I am truly saddened by his passing,” Motshekga. “This is heartbreaking and indeed a huge loss to the sector and society as a whole. It is a tragedy for the family, the province and the country. Tate was simply the best ever. He contributed immensely not only in Free State education but in the sector generally. He was a very hardworking, highly gifted but humble and respectful to all. A trailblazer of note,” she said. Motshekga conveyed her condolences to the family, friends, colleagues and stakeholders who worked with Makgoe. 59-year-old Makgoe served the Education department for the past four years. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here