Within a few months of operations, businessman Johnie Modiba has seen his sneakers brand Mitch Wear grow in leaps and bounds. The Limpopo-born shoe manufacturer, who is based in Edenvale, Ekurhuleni, has taken the industry by storm introducing a sneaker that is durable, flexible, and affordable. Modiba’s experience in the footwear industry helped him in the designing the behind-the-scenes part, which is manufacturing. “As someone who was in the panel that used to lead the policy development under the footwear industry I spotted a niche, a demand and shortage of businesses that are manufacturing footwear brand in the country,” he said. Modiba used his exposure to various businesspeople to gauge his future in the industry. He said having grown in a country that believes in people owning their craft, he had the zeal to launch his sneakers in November 2022. His marketing strategy helped him pull in clients. Modiba has worked with musician King Monada as one of his brand ambassadors. “A lot of people that I have been in communication with have shown a lot of interest in my brand. As unpopular as the shoe was when we started, the increase in sales is reflective of the business’s growth because people liked the brand enough to spend on it, purchasing shoes for them and their family members,” said Modiba. The entrepreneur further said his main aim for his business was to beinclusive to all genders and races. “We did not want to be caged in terms of how and where the shoe should be worn because it fits in the gym, smart casual and you can go to work wearing it. In the production of the shoe, we had to keep in mind the affordability matter because we want varsity students to wear luxury that they can afford.” Like any businessman, Modiba has plans for his business and sees it changing the footwear industry in the country for the better with longevity associated with the brand. “At the moment we do not have physical stores, but people are reaching out to us online and with our eight staff members, that has been working for us. We want to grow, develop our own and be known as sneakers that have lasting quality. We want to be the brand that is competitive with all the other brands and be chosen by people. “ In the next five years I would like to see us own five to 10 shops in South Africa and perhaps collaborating with even bigger businesses and brands.” Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here