The South African Federation Of Trade Unions (Saftu’s) will be joining the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) on its planned national shutdown earmarked to take place on 20 March. The national shutdown which is aimed at putting the country on a pedestal is said to be going one of the biggest marches to be led by EFF’s leader, Julius Malema.
Last month Malema addressed his followers in Athlone, Cape Town during the Western Cape Plenum that President Cyril Ramaphosa should resign while also stated that there should be a plan to be made for never ending loadshedding that has brought the country on its knees. “We are not fighting with anyone at all. All we are asking for is for one man to step aside, for Eskom to give us electricity, and for the government to give us jobs. It can’t be correct that 60% of young people are unemployed and you call yourself an organisation of the people and you do nothing about it,” said Malema. Upon Saftu’s announcement that that it will be joining the EFF on the march, the red berets commended the workers’ union for its decisive resolution to form part of the national shutdown. The organisation which has 20 unions affiliated to it is one of the two biggest organized labour movements in the country. “The decision of Saftu to form part of the national shutdown is both principled and represents a long-overdue working-class solidarity of the left in South Africa. The energy crisis and the continued mis-leadership of Cyril Ramaphosa has had a devastating effect on both labour and businesses. Thousands of black-owned businesses, which employ our people are unable to manage the costs of maintaining their businesses and remunerating their employees, all while catering for the added costs of purchasing diesel for generators,” said EFF spokesperson Sinawo Thambo. He added that it was great to have Saftu as part of the national mass action demanding electricity and the resignation of Ramaphosa, as an act of representing the interests of all workers. Saftu’s secretary general Zwelinzima Vavi said that his organisation was joining the EFF as part of up against the crisis. “This means that we will mobilise our own members to join the protest across the country, however our participation has conditions which have been discussed with the EFF. SAFTU is not willing to just join a political party programme, we can’t do that we are an independent federation. We can only join a broad front of left formations working together to achieve a common goal of an effective national shutdown,” Vavi said. For more political news and views, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.