Families of brutally slain celebrities are crying foul as the justice system continues to fail them and there have been very few updates on their cases. This comes after the award-winning muso AKA was gunned down last month by unknown gunmen, together with his former manager, Tebello “Tibz” Motsoane, outside Wish restaurant in Durban, KwaZulu-Natal. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Robert Netshiunda confirmed there were still no arrests in relation to AKA’s murder as it was challenging to chase the unknown, but also confirmed the police were continuing to observe “people of interest”, and were close to cracking the case. This unsolved murder adds to other unsolved brutal murder cases of several artists. Bacardi star Itumeleng “Vusi Ma R5” Mosoeu was gunned down after his performance in Legentsheng, Soshanguve on January 30. Similarly, Oupa Johan Sefoka known as DJ Sumbody died in a hail of bullets from a drive-by shooting after performing at a nightclub in Woodmead last November. A source close to Sefoka’s family said they had lost confidence in the police’s search for the killers and would not wait for any update from the cops to find closure. “The police have never come to the house or at least called us to update on his (Sefoka) murder and we actually thought this would be treated as a high-profile case. We want to know when they have cracked something, even if it is small but I don’t even expect them to because they have failed many South Africans before. “The police have a scripted response when asked about this matter and they have also told the family to give the same response: ‘the matter is still under investigation’.” Pro Kid’s younger brother, Sandile Nkululeko Mkhize, famously known as DJ Citi Lyts, was also shot while out with friends in Soweto on the morning of Valentine’s Day last year. Mkhize’s cousin, Sean Vilakazi, told Sunday World the police had never updated them on Mkhize’s murder. “There has never been an update of any sort and my uncle has come to terms with the fact that justice system in South Africa is not doing its job. “He is now sick, he has not been in good health and the thought of this is draining him,” said Vilakazi. DJ Vintos, real name Hector Ginimbi Buthelezi, a popular TikTok star, was also killed in a drive-by shooting by suspects in a BMW X3 in Orlando East in March last year. Netshiunda said established crime fighting strategies to speed up the arrest of perpetrators would not be disclosed to the public, adding that the police 
department always developed strategies, tailoring them for a specific need and case.”