It was another exciting weekend of sport across the world filled with drama and shock results in the English Premier League. The Formula One also returned with a bang, and there were big talking points in the local DStv Premiership. Here are some of the highlights of the best moments over the weekend: Amakhosi bag back-to-back wins Soweto giants Kaizer Chiefs recorded their first back-to-back wins this year when they beat 10-men Richards Bay 1-0 on Saturday afternoon. Amakhosi also found themselves having a numerical advantage for the eighth time this season in all competitions. With the league already out of reach, Chiefs coach Arthur Zwane and his troops are looking to settle for position two, but will have it all to fight for against in-form SuperSport, Orlando Pirates, and Cape Town City, who also eye the second spot on the log.  Verstappen shows who’s boss Formula One world champion Max Verstappen started the new campaign with a bang, winning the Bahrain Grand Prix on Sunday. The Oracle Red Bull driver dominated the race while his long-time rival Lewis Hamilton only managed position five. Verstappen will undoubtedly aim for his third world title come end of the season.  Arsenal impressive comeback Arsenal produced one of the greatest comebacks when they came from two goals behind to beat AFC Bournemouth 3-2 on Saturday, thanks to second-half goals from Thomas Partey, Ben White, and a stoppage-time winner from Reiss Nelson. The Gunners certainly showed some champion mentality and surely proved why they should be crowned the EPL champs come May 28.  Sundowns 15-match winning streak ends DStv Premiership reigning champions Mamelodi Sundowns saw their record 15-match winning streak come to an end when they were held to a 1-1 draw by Stellenbosch FC on Sunday. Head coach Rulani Mokwena was not impressed with how his side performed on the day but despite the draw, they are still way ahead of second-place SuperSport United with 17 points.  Liverpool demolish Manchester United Liverpool handed archrivals Manchester United their heaviest defeat in 92 years when they thrashed them 7-0 on Sunday evening. Forwards Dawin Nunez, Cody Gakpo and Mohamed Salah scored two goals each. Outgoing Brazilian Roberto Firmino also added his name to the scoreboard and some salt to the gaping United wound. Salah’s brace meant he becomes Liverpool’s record scorer in the Premier League era with 129 goals, surpassing legendary striker Robbie Fowler.  For the latest sport news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here