Frustrated parents continued to queue outside education offices in Gauteng’s high-pressure area on Friday in a last-ditch attempt to get their children placements as the start of the academic year gets into full swing with coastal provinces going back to school this week. Brenda Mabidikama, who was returning for the second day on Friday at the Ekurhuleni North district offices in Benoni, Ekurhuleni, to check on the status of her application, stood out like a sore thumb with her daughter and niece in tow clad in full school uniform. They were looking forward to starting school this year, she said. “They were so excited; we could not tell them that they have not been placed yet. So, we bought them uniforms so that they can feel they are starting school,” she said. “We will buy them proper uniforms when they are placed,” she said. But it was not hard to see the dampened spirits on little Kelebogile Mabidikama’s and her cousin Amani Boikhutso’s faces. Mabidikama said she struggled uploading documents online and went to Norkem Primary School in Kempton Park, which is near their house, to submit them there, but she was told schools don’t accept documents. Mabidikama got feedback on Friday that Kelebogile would be placed at Laerskool Birchleigh, but her niece Amani would be placed at Klopperpark Primary in Germiston. “I was told by the district office to go to Birchleigh on Monday,” she said, “but Amani will have to wait until the end of the month to find out whether there will be a place for her at Birchleigh.” The family and the girls live together at Norkem Park. The girls attended the same creche. “They are inseparable. It will cost us an extra R1 000 in transport for them to go to Laerskool Birchleigh, but at least they will be in the same school,” she said. Several parents, who spoke to Sunday World while they were queueing, said they were forced to move their children from independent schools due to the tough economic conditions. Siphesihle Mazibuko’s daughter was at Sparks when her financial situation changed, forcing her to enroll at a public school to start Grade 8 last year. She says her daughter performed so dismally in Grade 8 last year at William Hills that her teachers said she needed to find her a school for children with special needs. A frustrated Mazibuko was at the district office to find her another school to repeat Grade 8. Fatima Abrahams submitted a late application for her son who is starting grade 1. With her daughter, who was responsible for his schooling relocating and unable to continue to pay for his private schooling, Abrahams was in a last-minute dash to find him placement. “I didn’t apply last year because I didn’t know we would be faced with this financial situation,” she said. For Endence Gazide, whose son was in Curro, all the primary schools in her area are full. She said her salary has been the same for the past two years and her husband’s business is not doing well. Some parents were in a scramble to buy school uniforms but did not factor in the early closing hours on Fridays. Talifhani Mapholi was relieved when Gem school wear opened at 2pm in Mayfair, Joburg. He has three children in Grades 1, 5 and 12. “ “It is tough, everything has gone up,” he said, adding that he now spends R1 000 on transport for his younger kids. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here