A venue that has been earmarked to host the ANC January 8 celebrations in the City of Mangaung in Free State is in shambles. The Dr Rantlai Molemela Stadium, named after the late Bloemfontein Celtic owner Petrus Molemela, lacks fire, safety and electrical certificates to host any event, including the much-anticipated ANC January 8 celebrations rally.  A letter from the Mangaung acting city manager Tebogo Motlashuping to ANC provincial convenor Mxolisi Dukwana, dated December 21, reveals shocking details about the stadium’s state of readiness to host the rally on Sunday. The letter, which we have seen, reads in part: “This report seeks to advise the event owner of the shortfalls of the Dr Rantlai Molemela Stadium in preparation [to host] the ANC January 8 event. During inspection, the following shortfalls were identified, which could render the stadium non-compliant. “The northern part of the stadium sunk after construction. Please note that even though the correction report was submitted, it still needs to be referred to a structural engineer for periodical assessment.” Motlashuping further wrote that the ablution facilities at the stadium have been vandalised, and added that there is no running water for toilets and taps. He also highlighted that the VIP holding rooms that will accommodate senior ANC officials have also been vandalised. “[Taking] note of the above, and the financial position of the municipality, it will be difficult for the municipality to implement remedial action within a [short] period of time. Furthermore, this will prohibit the municipality to issue a grading certificate for the event to take place.” Despite the safety concerns having been brought to the attention of the ruling party, ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa, secretary-general Fikile Mbalula and senior party leaders have maintained that the venue is safe to host the rally on Sunday. “The ANC will go ahead with the January 8 celebrations at the Dr Rantlai Molemela Stadium,” said Oupa Khoabane, Free State ANC interim provincial committee spokesperson. “Many organisations and churches have had their events held in that stadium, the ANC will do the same. There’s a report of engineers which confirms that the venue is still strong to carry the capacity expected. We will be bringing mobile toilets and water to cater for the people [who will attend the celebrations].” City of Mangaung spokesperson Qondile Khedama did not respond to Sunday World questions, however, he told NewzRoom Africa, a 24-hour digital satellite television news channel, that heads will roll once the municipality has completed an investigation on how the confidential letter was leaked. ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe also did not respond to questions sent to him at the time of publishing. This is a developing story … For more political news and views, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.