The Independent Examinations Board’s (IEB) matric class of 2022 has achieved a 98.42% pass rate, a slight increase from the 98.39% achieved in 2021. Of those who passed, 89.32% of the cohort achieved university entry, 7.52% qualified for entry to diploma study, while 1.57% achieved entry for study at the higher certificate level. IEB CEO Kathleen Oberholzer commended the class of 2022 saying they have managed to come up trumps despite social and emotional challenges arising from the Covid-19 pandemic. According to Oberholzer, the class of 2022 were the most hit by the pandemic in 2020 when they were in grade 10, adding that grade 10 is fundamentally crucial to the outcome of the learners’ grade 12 performance. “The performance of the 2022 cohort of students has been outstanding. There is enough credible research on the impact of Covid-19 on the educational aspects of children to provide insight into where we are at, in coming out of the pandemic almost three years later,” she said. “It is fair to say that it is the 2022 cohort of learners that were hardest hit by the impact of the pandemic when it broke in 2020 in their grade 10 year. Various strategies have been employed to try and mitigate these – moving teaching online, pen and paper distance education, catch-up programmes, weekend school lessons and so on – some more successful than others. “While the class of 2022 has seen how previous grade 12 classes of 2020 and 2021 managed to adapt to a new reality, this was the class that missed out the most in their grade 10 and grade 11 years, which are fundamentally important to success in their grade 12 performance,” she said. Oberholzer explained further: “They have had to work hard to maintain their drive and perseverance to succeed and in many respects, dig deep to play catch-up in terms of lost time and experiences.” She said the social and emotional impact of the pandemic on learners cannot be overlooked, highlighting that the impact of lockdown, the absence of normal social interaction with friends and engagement in the social activities of teenagers should not be under-estimated. “The dedication of the teaching community to implement various strategies to support their classes during this black swan event is exemplary. The IEB congratulates the candidates, their teachers and parents for a job extraordinarily well done,” she said. Meanwhile, education quality assurance body Umalusi has confirmed that it will release the National Senior Certificate examination board’s results, which will be announced by Basic Education Minister Angie Mothekga, on Thursday. However, the learners will only have access to their statement’s on Friday morning. Also read:Matric Results 2022 For more education news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here