Season’s Greetings to all my huns, your Lady in Gossip is back with a bang in 2023 after recharging her batteries. For your good old entertainment, moi would like to dabble in what the Mzansi music scene looks like. Trust me, I am not a music expert, but I enjoy South African sounds to their fullest. Believe you me, the future of the amapiano genre looks bright as witnessed by your Gossip Lady during the festive season, as I imagine moi has an ear for good music. I say so because the amapiano sounds have successfully launched many music careers. But some
musos even dumped their genres to follow the ghetto sound. Young Stunna, real name Sandile Msimango, took South African music lovers by storm with his ghetto sound at a time when no one knew him while he was still doing hip-hop. I don’t want to sound patronising, but he did shut the industry with Adiwele back in 2021 and has created magic in every song he features. Doubtful? Check out Sete and Mlando. Once again, Shwa does not want to be judged as a condescending bitch, Young Stunna is nothing different to Ch’cco with Nkao Tempela, and I can say the amapiano sound has played a humongous part in granting struggling artists great opportunities. Musician Nkosazana Daughter made use of the platform to show off her vocal talents, which left me astonished. Now, this is an artist to look out for in the new year. She gave Mzansi Dali Nguwe and Kuwe beats which became the darlings of fans during the festive season. Just imagine what she has to offer next. To change gears from sounds to small screen flicks. Have y’all seen Ama Qamata? The girl deserves some Hollywood acting gigs. You probably know her from performing the Puleng character on Blood and Water or Buhle on Gomora. I still wish to see Nefisa Mkhabela on a different TV show, though. Showing her talent on Netflix or Showmax. The young star has proved herself and is nailing every role she plays. My little football knowledge is inclined towards believing 18-year-old Kaizer Chiefs midfielder Mduduzi Shabalala could be the Real McCoy, since we are naming a few talents to look out for. Coach Arthur Zwane must give him a chance to glitter before his talent goes to waste, I beg. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. 