The year 2023 is under way and will be big for South African national teams who will compete in global tournaments. The Spar Proteas, Banyana Banyana and Springboks will all be participating in their respective world cup tournaments this year, with the Proteas yet to confirm their entry in the ICC Cricket World Cup. South Africa, the host of the Netball World Cup, has been drawn in a tough Pool C group alongside Wales, Jamaica and Sri Lanka. Reigning champions New Zealand are likely to ease past their group as they have been drawn in Pool D alongside Uganda, Trinidad and Tobago and the lowest-ranked side Singapore. It will be the first time an African team hosts the tournament, scheduled for Cape Town from July 28 to August 6.  With the 2022 Fifa World Cup in Qatar rounded off in spectacular fashion and Argentina crowned world champions after beating France on penalties, the 2023 Women’s World Cup edition in Australia and New Zealand, respectively, will be expected to deliver the same quality, and Banyana will be a part of the global tournament starting on July 20. South Africa beat host nation Morocco 2-1 in the Women’s Africa Cup of Nations in 2022 to be crowned the queens of Africa for the first time. Coach Desiree Ellis and her charges are preparing for a bigger task at hand, after they were drawn with Italy, Argentina and second-ranked Sweden in Group G.  The Rugby World Cup will take place in France, where Springboks captain Siya Kolisi will be playing his rugby next season. South Africa were crowned the 2019 rugby world champions in Japan after defeating England 32–12 in the final. Despite being the defending champions, the Springboks are not regarded among favorites to lift the prestigious Webb Ellis trophy. The opening match will see two of the favorite nations Le Bleu and the All Blacks battle it out in a Pool-A match at Stade de France, Saint-Denis on September 8.  The 2023 ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup will take place in India later in 2023, with dates and fixtures yet to be announced, as teams must first confirm their entry in the tournament through the ICC Cricket World Cup Super League qualification pathway. It is no secret that the Proteas have been underperforming in recent years, but they will set their eyes on improving their results heading into the World Cup by going back to winning ways. For the latest sport news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here