Disgruntled former MMC for human settlements in the City of Tshwane, Abel Tau, has formed a new political party after he was expelled by ActionSA over allegations of attempted rape. Addressing the media in Lethabong, Tshwane Tau expressed dissatisfaction with ActionSA and announced the establishment of his party, the United Africans Transformation. ActionSA terminated Tau’s membership in November 2022 after three women smeared him with rape and sexual misconduct accusations. In October, Sunday World reported on how Tau allegedly tried to rape the wife of his friend and colleague in the affluent suburb of Magaliesberg country estate Amandasig in Akasia, north of Pretoria in September. More women revealed that they were also the victims of Tau’s alleged sexual misconduct. A case of attempted rape was opened and Tau is expected to appear before the court in March. ActionSA concomitantly suspended Tau, however, he violated his suspension when he went to the office in the City of Tshwane and allegedly told his colleagues that he would be returning to work. Sunday World reported at the time that Tau later allegedly instructed the city’s driver to bring a minibus to his house to transport his friends from Botswana to the O.R Tambo International Airport for their trip to Belgium. Asked if Tau had returned to work, ActionSA leader Herman Mashaba flipped his wig and said at the time: “When you are on suspension, you are on suspension. You cannot be suspended and be on half-suspension. “He cannot represent the party or work when he is suspended. That study leave he told you about is nonsense. What is he studying? The man is making unnecessary mistakes and he is making it very difficult for us. There is no way we can tolerate such behaviour.” Tau was later expelled from the party. According to Tau, ActionSA’s response to his fiasco was unlawful and unjustifiable. He said he intends to challenge his expulsion at the high court in Pretoria, noting that he has no intention of returning back to ActionSA even if he is cleared. “I want the court to make it clear that I was expelled for political expediency. I want the court to rule that the decision to expel me was irrational and unlawful,” Tau said. Also read: ActionSA fires attempted rape accused MMC Abel Tau For more political news and views, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.