Tributes continue to stream in following the death of former Premier Soccer League (PSL) marketing guru and broadcast specialist advisor Peter Mancer. Mancer, affectionately known as Squire in football circles, was influential in the birth of new-era PSL in 1996-1997. He died on Monday after a long battle with lung cancer. The ANC was among various organisations and personalities, including the SA Football Association (Safa), which sent condolences to the family and friends of the “colourful and likeable” Mancer. PSL chairman Irvin Khoza said in a statement: “We express our sincere condolences to the Mancer family. Your loss is indeed our loss. “Together with you, we will miss the gentle giant, Mancer the dancer. When I think about Squire, I think of pedigree, he was one of a kind – dependable, tenacious, abundance of energy. His word was bankable.” Mancer was the showstopper. He called himself a “man for the main event” and “Prime Time”, among many other nicknames. He was the main figure behind the PSL Awards and was the brainchild of the Carling Black Label Cup. He was also in charge of the Nedbank Cup for some time. “Squire for Hire,” as he was also affectionately known, played a key role when the PSL negotiated a groundbreaking TV broadcast deal with pay-channel Supersport in 2007. A former disco-dancing champion in the 1970s, the eccentric Mancer will be remembered for his platform shoes and crimplene suits. At some point, Mancer and Khoza were inseparable. He was a thorough marketing professional who did not mind criticism. He would say: “As long as you get my name right, Squire.” Orlando Pirates general manager Derek Blackensee tweeted: “Squire Mancer was much more than a colleague. He was one of the most genuine, trustworthy, dependable friends I have ever known. “Whether it was when my family got held up at home, or when I had trouble at work, he really, truly, honestly cared from his heart.” Retired Fifa world cup referee Jerome Damon shared: “A gentleman … now Jerome tell me more about how referees would want …” And then he listens, interrogates and implements. “Squire, thank you for your servant heart for our football. We are better because you were. Dance amongst the stars now, Mancer the dancer.” Former Banyana Banyana coach and Safa administrator Fran Hilton-Smith referred to Mancer as a very special man, while SuperSport United tweeted: “Everyone at SuperSport United is saddened to learn of the passing of Peter ‘Squire’ Mancer. We send our deepest condolences to his family and friends. May his soul rest in eternal peace.” Former PSL employee Koketso Gaofetoge also paid his respects: “Rest in peace, Squire. It was an honour to work and learn from you during the early days. Sincere condolences to the Mancer family and PSL colleagues whom I wish strength, comfort, and peace to bear the pain during this difficult time.” The Mancer family will announce funeral arrangements in due course. For the latest sport news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here  