Kaizer Chiefs coach Arthur Zwane will continue using the youngsters even though his tiny tots were exposed and hammered by AmaZulu last week, he said on Thursday. Chiefs will need to redeem themselves when they face the runaway log leaders Mamelodi Sundowns at the FNB Stadium on Saturday evening. The Brazilians recorded their 11th win on the trot when they defeated SuperSport United 1-0 on Tuesday. Zwane was adventurous when he released a starting line-up teeming with young players against Usuthu. Even though the team list excited the fans before the match, the players were outmuscled and it backfired with a 4-0 drubbing. “Sundowns are champions and they are on top of the log. Our preparations are going fine so far and the boys have responded positively. We are looking forward to the game,” Zwane told the media on Thursday. “We are not looking at Sundowns because we are running our own race. We will profile Sundowns because we are playing against them, but we will not have to put ourselves under pressure and be worried about Sundowns – we need to focus on ourselves and how we can rectify the mistakes we made in the past.” Zwane is sticking to his guns and is convinced that the youngsters must be given an opportunity to play if Chiefs want to bring back the glory days. “Football is a game of opportunities, and some of our senior players are not available because of injuries and unforeseen circumstances, we had to give the young players the opportunity to express themselves and showcase their talent.” About Sundowns’ dominance, Zwane said it is all about continuity. “Continuity is everything in football. We have to look at where Sundowns started and how far they have come, as well as how they were building. It is because of the patience and the belief in the technical team. “When their then head coach [Pitso Mosimane] left, there was continuity. It’s not by mistake that they are grinding in the results week in and week out. They have done well so far and credit should be given to them. We just need to look at ourselves and see where we can improve to challenge them.” For the latest sport news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here