It was a tight affair at the Loftus Versfeld Stadium on Monday evening, as the highly anticipated Tshwane derby saw Mamelodi Sundowns edge past SuperSport United by one goal to nil in the DStv Premiership league encounter. Matsatsantsa a Pitori looked livelier in the opening stages of the game, causing problems for the defending champions in the final third, with Thapelo Maseko coming closest to breaking the deadlock when he riddled through the Sundowns defense in the 13th minute and found himself one-on-one with goalkeeper Ronwen Williams, but failed to hit the target. Masandawana also had a fair share of chances, with Aubrey Modiba coming from the flank and saw his shot hit the side netting, while defender Rashine de Reuck got a free header at the far post, but could not capitalise after a well-worked free kick by Marcelo Allende. Maseko, 19, continued his man-of-the match performance by being a nuisance in the Sundowns box, and had a penalty shout when he was brought down by Khuliso Mudau, but referee Luxolo Badi did not entertain the pleas and decided to give them a corner instead. Had the penalty been given, it could have changed the game, but it was not meant to be as Neo Maema’s 43rd minute goal was enough to hand the defending champions maximum points to extend their lead at the top of the table to 14 points ahead of newly promoted Richards Bay. Coach Rulani Mokwena’s charges are on the verge of retaining their league title, with no team seemingly close to competing with them. Prior to the game, SuperSport coach Gavin Hunt admitted that the runaway leaders cannot be caught, echoing Swallows FC coach Ernst Middendorp sentiments, who suggested that Sundowns will not be matched. The Brazilians will be looking to continue their agonizing dominance in the league when they visit a struggling Kaizer Chiefs side at the FNB Stadium on Saturday, whom they are well ahead of by 19 points. For the latest sport news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here