Tennis legend Martina Navratilova announced on Monday that she has been diagnosed with stage 1 throat and breast cancer. Navratilova, 66, said that doctors had diagnosed her with two forms of cancer after she discovered a swollen lymph node on her neck back in November. The Wimbledon nine time record winning singles champion was previously given the all-clear from a non-invasive form of breast cancer in 2010, after receiving radiation treatment. The former number one won 59 grand slam singles and doubles titles in her 40-year career. In a statement by her representatives, her prognosis was described as ‘good’. “Martina Navratilova has been diagnosed with stage one throat cancer. The prognosis is good, and Martina will start her treatment this month,” read the statement. “The cancer type is HPV, and this particular type responds really well to treatment. “Martina noticed an enlarged lymph node in her neck during the WTA finals in Fort Worth. When it didn’t go down, a biopsy was performed, the results came back as stage one throat cancer. “At the same time as Martina was undergoing the tests for the throat, a suspicious form was found in her breast, which was subsequently diagnosed as cancer, completely unrelated to the throat cancer. “Both these cancers are in their early stages with great outcomes. Martina won’t be covering the Australian Open for Tennis Channel from their studio but hopes to be able to join in from time to time by Zoom.” The Wimbledon great took to Twitter to express her gratitude for the support she has been receiving.  The Czech-born American legend retired in 1994, following a record 167 singles titles. She returned to the tour to play doubles in 2000 and occasionally competed in singles, too. Navratilova was later inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 2000. For the latest sport news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here