The year 2023 is going to be a big year for Banyana Banyana, the SA senior women’s football team that will be participating at the Fifa World Cup in June. The tournament will take place in New Zealand and Australia in July and August. The South Africans have been drawn against Sweden, Argentina and Italy. They will open their campaign against the Swedish on 23 July. In order to give Banyana a more competitive edge, the Safa president has revealed that the newly-appointed technical director Walter Steenbok will have a meeting with Banyana coach Desiree Ellis to strengthen the team’s technical support. After winning the Women’s Africa Cup of Nations (Wafcon) in Morocco in July last year, there was a baptism of fire for Banyana who played two friendly matches against Brazil and Australia, losing heavily in those friendly internationals. The losses were a wake-up call for the South Africans, who are now fully aware of the kind of opposition they will face Down Under, as compared to the slightly lesser teams they played against when they conquered the African continent. After the Wafcon, Brazil thumped Banyana 9-0 aggregate in a two-match series in Johannesburg and Durban. They then travelled to London in the UK where they lost 4-1 to the Aussies. “This is a massive year for Banyana. They are the African champions and a lot will be expected from them. We played against the Netherlands, Brazil and Australia and the results were not good. Maybe some of our players were not available but there is no excuse at the World Cup. “The technical director will assist in beefing up the coaching department for the World Cup,” Danny Jordaan told Sunday World. “There will be friendly matches organised leading to the tournament. Sweden are favourite to win the World Cup and if we can do well against Italy and Argentina, maybe we can reach the second round. “This will be a seriously, hectic and challenging year for Safa,” added Jordaan. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.