Springboks and Cell C Sharks captain Siya Kolisi is gearing up to join Racing 92 after the 2023 Rugby World Cup. Kolisi, 31, confirmed his departure on Twitter on Tuesday morning and expressed his gratitude to Cell C Sharks for granting him the green light to join the French rugby union outfit after the world cup in France later in 2023.  Racing 92 also issued a statement confirming that Kolisi will be joining the suburban Paris-based outfit. “Racing 92 is very pleased to announce the signing of Siya Kolisi. He is committed until 2026 and will join Ciel et Blanc at the end of the 2023 Rugby World Cup,” said Racing 92 in a statement. “This signing is part of a broader long-term collaboration agreement between the Racing 92 and Cell C Sharks clubs, where each of the parties has made financial efforts. Different areas have been defined, including an exchange of skills on rugby schools, training centres and the respective professional teams. “Beyond [being] the exceptional player, Kolisi is known for his commitment to education and social cohesion. At the same time, [he has] committed to his community [and] has become a real source of inspiration through all the societal actions he leads beyond the playground.” It explained further: “With his arrival at the club at the end of the 2023 Rugby World Cup, Racing 92 is proud to have in its ranks an athlete committed to society. It is therefore quite natural that the club, already invested in solidarity initiatives, will join the initiatives he leads.”  The loose forward leaves Cell C Sharks after joining the club in February 2021 and is expected to sign a deal that runs until 2026 with the French outfit. Kolisi will reunite with fellow Springboks teammates Trevor Nyakane and Warrick Gelant in the French rugby union. For the latest sport news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here