Chippa United coach Morgan Mammila will on Tuesday night have the opportunity to back his remarks about Mamelodi Sundowns being a “very easy team to play against” when the two sides lock horns at the Loftus Versfeld Stadium in Pretoria. Mammila shocked soccer lovers when he boldly told a news conference recently that the reigning league champions are the simplest team to play against. “Sundowns is the simplest team to play against, very simple, even a DDC [DStv Diski Challenge] player will tell you how Sundowns play. Very easy team to play against,” Mammila said. “The difference is that they are mastering the system, that’s the only difference. I hear people talking about Sundowns quality. No, there is no such thing. Half of those players from Sundowns were fighting relegation where they come from. “I don’t even need to do a video session when I play Sundowns. All my players know how Sundowns play.” Masandawana will, however, not be fazed by the 51-year-old’s comments, as Rulani Mokwena and his charges have been unstoppable this season, registering 12 wins half-way through the season and will be aiming for a 10th consecutive win against Chippa United. During their last meeting, Sundowns edged past the Gqeberha-based outfit through a Peter Shalulile stoppage-time strike to win 1-0 and cost then coach Daine Klate his job. The Brazilians are sitting comfortably on top of the log, 10 points clear off Pretoria archrivals Supersport United, and will look to extend their lead to 13 points. Mamelodi Sundowns predicted XI: R Williams, A Modiba, M Mvala, G Kekana, K Mudau , N Maema, T Mokoena, M Allende, T Zwane, C Mailula, G Sirino Chippa United predicted XI: S Nwabili, A Banda, M Mathiane, R Pieterson, Z Mdunyelwa, S Mkhize, A Matrose, R Maarman, S Luthuli, T Lebitso, E Ighodaro For the latest sport news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here