Revered radio presenter Pabi Moloi is being accused by her “estranged husband” Ruan Adams of disallowing him full access to his son and giving him only 40 minutes to play with him in a cold and dingy room. Revered radio presenter Pabi Moloi is being accused by her “estranged husband” Ruan Adams of disallowing him full access to his son and giving him only 40 minutes to play with him in a cold and dingy room. He said Moloi and her mother also teased and hurled a plethora of insults at him whenever he arrived at the media personality’s home to play with his son. Adams also said the former Power FM presenter also prohibited him from touching his son, changing his nappies and feeding him. The heart-breaking titbits are contained in the court papers Adams filed in the Joburg High Court last week in which he is seeking an order to grant him full contact and visitation rights to his son. Adams and Moloi, who broke up about three years ago, are fighting over the former YFM presenter’s lucrative estate, which includes several properties in Sandton, Joburg. Adams has since filed for divorce and is demanding half of Moloi’s estate. He claimed that he had paid R25 000 for the former YFM presenter and was, by law, married to Moloi in community of property. Although Moloi admitted that Adams had paid the lobola, she disputed that they were married in community of property. She has asked the court to dismiss his application for a decree of divorce with costs. In the court papers, which we have seen, Adams said Moloi was denying him access to his son so he could walk with him at a mall, park or a kid-friendly area. He said Moloi’s family, her mother in particular, had always denied him access to have his son out of their residential property for proper contact access and to visit him at his home since birth. “I have been there in my child’s life since birth but have always experienced difficulties in exercising full contact access as the same has been denied to me since the child was born. I have always been given about 40 minutes, an hour or less per session of contact access, under strict visitation arrangements, sometimes it is in the respondent’s house but most of the time it is in the respondent’s aunt’s house,” read the papers. He said during the visit he was not allowed to touch his son, to freely play with him, change his nappies or feed him. “There are always two grannies staring at me when I am seeing my son and the condition within which I see my son is very bad and too hostile. I see my son as more like I am in prison,” read the papers. He said he wanted the court to give him relief so he could be able to have full contact and visitation rights of his son. “I have never been visited by my son or at least spend time with him at the park, mall or anywhere just the two of us. I have never been treated like a father in my son’s life and this is what brings me to this court,” reads the papers. Adams also said although he was unemployed, he always hustled for money to support his son. He said he was hurt that Moloi has always given him the cold shoulder and treats him like a stranger to his son. “I am in the sixth year of being under strict supervision and I do not understand where this comes from. I am not a violent person, and I would never be violent towards my child or any person. The respondent and her family have been swearing and teasing me each time I complain about being treated as a stranger in my child’s life and I shall play one of the videos in which, the respondent’s mother seriously swore at me and said all things regarding me and my son. “The child will grow and treat me as an absent father due to what the respondent and her mother instilled in him. The respondent’s conducts are seriously wrong and unlawful,” read the papers. He said he previously filed a contact access and visitation case in the children’s court at Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court but withdrew it later after he was advised that the case would be brought within the divorce action. “I have spent so much money in legal battle as I try to fight for my parental rights and responsibilities. The respondent has always opposed all those applications and my cases pertaining to my contact access, showing that she has no desire or interest for me to have full contact access and visitation rights with my son”. Adams said this was parental alienation, which was designed to physiologically manipulate the son to believe he was a deadbeat dad. He said for the first month after this order, he wants to have a period of two hours a session twice a week allocated to him. He wants interim specific responsibilities and rights with regards to contact with the minor child be awarded to him. He also wants the birth certificate of the child to be amended immediately to reflect that he is the child’s biological father. Moloi ignored our phone call and text messages. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.