Season two of Mzansi Magic’s Becoming: House of Diamonds returns on February 24. The second season of the acclaimed reality series continues to explore themes around identity, belonging, and self-acceptance. Becoming: House of Diamonds follows the lives of the cast as they go through their individual journeys. The show is about the LGBTQI community, giving the cast members a platform to share their individual stories. Shirley Adonisi, director of local entertainment channels at M-Net, said: “Becoming is a groundbreaking and important show that we’re pleased to bring back for a new season. “This reality show not only keeps viewers engaged but is also informative and educational. It was a show that enjoyed a high level of talkability. We’re proud to provide a platform for layered and honest representation for people in the queer communities and [we] can’t wait for the viewers to dive in and enjoy this season.” The main cast members who will be featured on Becoming season two are: Trey Moo (she/they), house mother: As the matriarch of the House of Diamonds, her focus is on keeping everyone housed and safe. But that doesn’t mean she doesn’t have her own battles to fight – we follow as she confronts family rejection and seeks love and belonging. Delovie (she), godmother: The Ugandan-born photographer is also facing gender-bias visa issues. Seoketsi (she/they): The student and activist is facing her own traumas while attempting to find emotional, mental, and physical stability. Cailey (she/they): A model struggling to get into the industry, she has family support. We follow as she begins her journey of hormone therapy. The secondary cast members are Koyame (he/they), Ayabonga (he/they), Lulu (they/them) and Nene (she/they). The premiere of Becoming season two will air on Mzansi Magic (DStv channel 161) on Friday at 9.30pm. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here