John Maduka, who made a sensational return to Royal AM as head coach, has showered Andile Mpisane with praises for being a good player. Mpisane, 22, is also chairperson of the club and the son of flamboyant businesswoman Shauwn “MaMkhize” Mkhize. Mpisane has been criticised for trying to force matters by playing professional football. Social media users have been on his case regarding his weight and his skills, or rather lack thereof. But the youngest chairman in the country is not listening to doomsayers. On Sunday, the player/chairperson captained Royal AM in the Diski Challenge against AmaZulu and he led the team out of the dug-out. Although he showed some good touches, and that he even almost scored from a free-kick, he was later substituted after spending an hour on the pitch. He was apparently not happy with being taken out and was seen having a few words with the club’s head of development, Khabo Zondo. “He’s still young and he is a talented player,” said Maduka in the press conference ahead of Royal AM match against Cape Town City this coming Sunday. “He’s got the potential, you can’t run away from that. For us to be where we are, we started somewhere. So, we give opportunities to everyone who raises up their hands and says ‘I can do that’. I strongly believe that he’s one of the players that have got the potential and he’s talented.” Maduka was asked if Mpisane could make his debut in the PSL in an official match, the coach played his cards close to his chest and only mentioned that the chairperson-cum-player does train with the team. “We chose a team on merit, whoever does well at training, will play. He does train with the team,” said Maduka. In September, Mpisane stole the limelight when he played against Kaizer Chiefs in the Macufe Cup. He did not touch the ball at all but he was on the podium to collect the winners’ trophy from the sponsors. For the latest sport news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.  